

    X     X    1   1        BBBB
    X     X   11  11        B   B                   i
      X X      1   1        B   B            sss
       X       1   1 -----  BBBB    aaaa    s   s   i   cccc
      X X      1   1        B   B  a   a      s     i  c
    X     X    1   1        B   B  a   a    s   s   i  c   
    X     X    1   1        BBBB    aaa a    sss    i   cccc
    
    
    
                       VERSION 1.18

            (C) 1997-2011 by Markus Hoffmann
              (kollo@users.sourceforge.net)

Name        : X11Basic                    
Version     : 1.18                              Vendor: Markus Hoffmann
Group       : Development/Languages             License: GPL
Packager    : Markus Hoffmann <kollo@users.sourceforge.net>
URL         : http://x11-basic.sourceforge.net/
Summary     : A Basic Interpreter with X11-Graphics capabilities
Description :

  X11-Basic is a dialect of the BASIC programming language with graphics
  capability that integrates features like shell scripting, cgi-Programming and
  full graphical visualisation into the easy to learn basic language on modern
  computers.

  The structure of the language is similar to the ATARI-ST GFA-BASIC.
  GFA-Basic programs should run with only few changes.

  On UNIX and linux systems, the X11 graphics engine can be used as well as the
  SDL library, the framebuffer devices or no graphics at all.  The MS WINDOWS
  version supports only SDL (or no graphics at all). On LINUX systems the ALSA
  sound engine can be used.

This package includes the basic interpreter named xbasic and a set of different 
compilers. The interpreter can be used as a shell, and can so run basic-scripts.
You can make excecutable scripts p.ex. *.cgi-Scripts for handling web-input. 

A compiler (xbc) is included which makes stand alone binaries out of the
scripts, which run more than 10 times faster than the interpreted code. The
compiler can either pseudo-compile the X11-Basic  sources by attaching the
source to a run-only interpreter (In which case the  program will not run faster
than is the interpreter is used, but you have everythin in one excecutable
file), or the compiler can do a real compilation of the BASIC source into
bytecode, then c, and finally machine language. This way the code excecutes 
about 10 times faster. (** This is a relatively new feature, so be prepared to
catch errors here. Please report them. **)

X11-Basic programs can also be compiled into a bytecode (see xbbc). This bytecode 
can be interpreted by a virtual machine (see xbvm). Finally, the bytecode can be 
converted to c sourcefiles (see xb2c) which can be compiles with the gnu C 
compiler to native excecutables.

Ancient ANSI-Basic programs (with line numbers) can be converted to X11-Basic
with the bas2x11basic program (see the man page bas2x11basic(1) ).

You will find the compiler sourcecode and some other sample programs in 
/usr/share/doc/packages/X11Basic/examples. A variety of other sample programs 
can be found in X11-Basic-examples-1.18.zip, which you can download from the 
homepage (http://x11-basic.sourceforge.net/). Also an up-to-date pdf-version 
of the manual can be found there.

Please read the file ./doc/X11-Basic-manual.txt for further information.

  X11BASIC is free software and comes with NO WARRANTY - read the file
  COPYING for details
 
(Basically that means, free, open source, use and modify as you like, don't
incorporate it into non-free software, no warranty of any sort, don't blame me
if it doesn't work.)

Please read the file INSTALL for compiling instructions.
